good evening and it's great to have you
with us here at a Thursday night we
begin tonight with news on the effort to
speed up a vaccine here in the US could
it happen by the end of the year and it
comes us tonight president Trump's
guidelines to slow the spread of the
virus are now expiring many states set
to carefully reopen amid concerns over
triggering a possible second wave all of
this as the number of quarter virus
cases is still rising in at least 18
states the death toll in the u.s. is now
nearing 63,000 and there is word tonight
President Trump wants a vaccine by the
end of the year reportedly calling for
hundreds of millions of doses by the
beginning of the year dr. Anthony found
you tonight on whether that's possible
making the doses before we know if it
works and which vaccine the team will
choose this comes 24 hours after the
president and dr. Fauci said the drug
remm des aveer shows promise and
treating the corona virus showing early
signs it might be able to block the
virus and shorten the duration of
symptoms set to be fast-tracked by the
FDA now for emergency use all of this
tonight as the president levels a new
accusation just a short time ago it
comes hours after US intelligence
officials weighed in in a rare move on
the origins of the virus in Wuhan China
acknowledging they are investigating
where it came from whether in a lab or
in a market or elsewhere but so far
saying they agree with the scientific
community that it was not man-made or
genetically modified the president
saying late today he has seen
information that gives him quote a high
degree of confidence the corona virus
originated from the Wuhan Institute of
virology we will carefully get to it all
tonight and we begin here with ABC's
whit Johnson in New York less than 24
hours after the corona virus task force
announced promising results for a drug
that could help treat the virus Ram de
severe tonight comes where the president
is working to fast-track something else
a vaccine the plan called Operation warp
speed is the administration's new effort
to speed up the time line for a vaccine
by the end of the year I hope we can
have a vaccine and we're going to
fast-track it like you've never seen
before the government and the military
teaming up with industry to mass-produce
doses of the vaccine by January 2021 it
was a judge of it honestly I am I'll
tell you I'm
today dr. Anthony found she pressed is
that feasible I was saying in January in
February that it would be a year to 18
months so January is a year so so it
isn't that much what I had originally
said but you don't wait until you get an
answer before you start manufacturing
you at risk proactively start making it
assuming it's gonna work what's unclear
is which vaccine the White House Task
Force is going to take a chance on also
today vice president Mike pant seen for
the first time wearing a mask while
touring a ventilator facility after an
uproar 48 hours ago for not wearing one
at a visit to the Mayo Clinic today the
vice president's wife saying he didn't
know it was actually after he left Mayo
Clinic that he found out that they had a
policy of asking everyone to wear a mask
and after questions were raised weeks
ago about where the virus came from
tonight the Director of National
Intelligence offering a rare statement
agreeing with the wide scientific
consensus that the Cova 19 virus was not
man-made or genetically modified but
adding they will continue to examine if
it was the result of an accident at a
laboratory in Wuhan the president was
asked about it moments ago have you seen
anything at this point that gives you a
high degree of confidence that the Wuhan
instituted virology was the origin of
this virus yes the president wouldn't
reveal what the information is in New
York unprecedented steps to fight the
spread of the virus by sanitizing public
transit images of the homeless sleeping
on subways prompting the governor to
shut down subway and commuter trains
overnight starting next week every 24
hours to be disinfected frontline
workers will be offered free rides there
on those trains they deserve to be kept
safe they deserve to have a clean safe
ride to and from work and they're going
to have it and we're going to move
heaven and earth to make sure that
happens
the numbers statewide on the decline but
still 306 people died in just 24 hours
what is his diagnosis in Illinois a peak
now
expected for another two weeks our Alex
Perez with paramedics in Chicago this
company responding to 150 calls in one
day
most of them Kovac cases so this is the
new routine every time you arrive to a
call every time every time in California
the governor cracking down closing
beaches in Orange County after large
crowds flocked to the coast last weekend
the images we saw a few of our beaches
were disturbing I was very candid about
that Los Angeles County reporting its
largest single-day surge in cases on
Wednesday but the mayor of LA is looking
ahead announcing an ambitious plan to
offer a coronavirus test to all
residents regardless of symptoms across
the country at least 32 states now
easing some restrictions by the end of
next week but cases of the virus still
rising in at least 18 states tonight the
FDA expected a green light emergency
treatment with that promising drug
remedy severe kriselle de Davis believes
it saved her you ready to blew it out
here celebrating her 46th birthday after
surviving 11 days on a ventilator Chris
eldest husband watched her improve three
days into the treatment very hopeful we
no more study is needed but that was
great to see Witt back with us live
tonight and I want to get back to those
plans for a vaccine they're hoping by
January so many questions on this wit
tonight from people at home I'm sure how
many doses does the task force think
they can produce and in order to produce
that number do they have to choose a
vaccine before knowing if it works and I
took note of that number from the World
Health Organization today saying there
are more than a hundred vaccines in the
works around the world so how do you
pick which one to bet on exactly David
that's right 100 vaccines in the works
including eight which are currently
approved for clinical trials dr. Falchi
says it's possible they could produce
hundreds of millions of doses to be
ready by January but at this point it's
unclear which vaccine will actually work
and which vaccine the task force will
ultimately get behind
David alright wit Johnson leading us off
tonight wit thank you hi everyone George
Stephanopoulos here thanks for checking
out the ABC News YouTube channel if
you'd like to get more videos show
highlights and watch live event coverage
click on the right over here to
subscribe to our Channel and don't
forget to download the ABC News app for
breaking news alerts thanks for watching